TLDR; This project seeks to make a series of abstract models of the
eukaryotic cell cycle accessble to the non-modelers. The content is
organized as per the ideas developed in [Tyson and Novak,
2001](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11371178).  This interactive
site is meant to be an educational tool, aimed at anyone who has been
exposed to the basic concepts of eukaroytic mitosis, and is curious
about the utility of mathematical models in making sense of complex
biological processes.)

## What are the cell cycle models all about?

## Why did you make this?
The prototypical mathematical model of biological systems still seems
to be the Lotka-Volterra predator-prey model, from the 20th
century. The curious student with an interest in molecular biology
*may* have come across the
[reprissilator](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Repressilator).  I
believe that there is still a general lack of awareness of the success
of mathematical models of cellular processes, ranging from the cell
cycle, to circadian oscillations, to autophagy, and even dynamical
models of cancer.  While there are general purpose tools [Cell
Collective](https://cellcollective.org/#) that provide platforms to
lower the barrier to entry to these theoretical models, I have not
come across a curated, interactive resource exploring any of these
models in depth. This is my attempt at creating such a tool, focussed
on the highly successful work by Tyson and Novak in the last couple of
decades on the yeast cell cycle.

Please feel free to reach out with any feedback and comments!

email: jamogh [at] vt [dot] edu

twitter: [@amogh_jalihal](https://twitter.com/amogh_jalihal)

github: this project's [github repository](https://github.com/amoghpj/cell-cycle-models).)
